Draft blog for the July 2026 Office Add-ins Community Call (#2330)
pnp/blog: content/office-add-ins-community-call/2026-07-08/index.md

---
title: "Office Add-ins developer platform community call – July 8, 2026"
summary: "Topics include: Office.js API delivery updates by Jonah Karpman, Building Copilot skills for Excel by Sankalp Madaan and Merry Zebro, Office.js quality updates by Akshay Dixit. Call hosted by Mansi Agrawal, Product Manager. Recorded on July 8, 2026."
date: 2026-07-08T14:00:00Z
author: "Alex Jerabek"
githubname: AlexJerabek
categories: ["Office add in developer community call"]
images:
  - images/office-add-ins-community-call-2026-07-08.png
tags: ["Office Add-ins","Microsoft 365"]
type: "regular"
videos:
  - https://youtu.be/QMImYn14FIM

> draft: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
draft: false
```

Author: Duh..

---
title: "Office Add-ins developer platform community call – July 8, 2026"
summary: "Topics include: Office.js API delivery updates by Jonah Karpman, Building Copilot skills for Excel by Sankalp Madaan and Merry Zebro, Office.js quality updates by Akshay Dixit. Call hosted by Mansi Agrawal, Product Manager. Recorded on July 8, 2026."
date: 2026-07-08T14:00:00Z
author: "Alex Jerabek"
githubname: AlexJerabek
categories: ["Office add in developer community call"]
images:
  - images/office-add-ins-community-call-2026-07-08.png
tags: ["Office Add-ins","Microsoft 365"]
type: "regular"
videos:

>   - TBD

Reviewer: Recording is now available: https://youtu.be/QMImYn14FIM. Video segments can be added as well.
```suggestion
  - https://youtu.be/QMImYn14FIM
```

draft: true
---

# Office Add-ins developer platform community call - July 8, 2026

> {{< youtube TBD >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< youtube QMImYn14FIM >}}
```

## This month's agenda and presenters

- **Office.js API delivery updates** — Jonah Karpman, Product Manager, Office.js API deployment pipeline. Jonah shared reliability improvements to the Office.js delivery infrastructure, including multi-provider CDN failover for Office.js endpoints. He also discussed ongoing work on an npm package for Office.js and a future unified domain for the Office.js API reference.

> - **Building Copilot skills for Excel** — Sankalp Madaan, Product Manager for Office.js in Excel, and Merry Zebro, Software Engineer for Office.js in Excel. Sankalp introduced Copilot skills in Excel as reusable packages of instructions, artifacts, workflow steps, resources, scripts, and guardrails. Merry demonstrated how a skill package works from the user markdown file, resources, and Office.js scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Building Copilot skills for Excel** — Sankalp Madaan, Product Manager for Office.js in Excel, and Merry Zebro, Software Engineer for Office.js in Excel. Sankalp introduced Copilot skills in Excel as reusable packages of instructions, artifacts, workflow steps, resources, scripts, and guardrails. Merry demonstrated how a skill package works using the user's Markdown file, resources, and Office.js scripts.
```

> - **Office.js quality updates** — Akshay Dixit, Product Manager, Office Extensibility quality. Akshay shared the team's progress on Office.js issue triage and resolution, with a focus on Word and Excel issues since the open letter. He described the triage approach, recent fixes, issue-age insights, and the areas where the team is actively investing next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Office.js quality updates** — Akshay Dixit, Product Manager, Office Extensibility quality. Akshay shared the team's progress on triaging and resolving Office.js issues, focusing on Word and Excel issues raised since the open letter. He described the triage approach, recent fixes, issue-age insights, and the areas where the team is actively investing next.
```

## View video segments

- Introduction and agenda
- Office.js API delivery updates
- Building Copilot skills for Excel
- Copilot skills for Excel demo: Zava Finance earnings quality dashboard
- Copilot skills for Excel demo: player impact spotlight
- Copilot skills package walkthrough
- Office.js quality updates
- Q&A
- Documentation updates and highlights
- General resources and next call details

## Resources related to this blog's content

- [Office Add-ins documentation](https://aka.ms/office-add-ins-docs)
- [Office Add-ins developer questions](https://aka.ms/office-addins-dev-questions)
- [GitHub office-js issues](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues)
- [Microsoft Tech Community – Submit feature requests](https://aka.ms/m365dev-suggestions)
- [Office Add-ins community call](https://aka.ms/officeaddinscommunitycall)
- [Submit questions for next community call](https://aka.ms/officeaddinsform)

## Q&A (question & answers)

> 

Reviewer: I assume Q&A will be copied from the recording/deck.

## Documentation updates and highlights

| Category | Article | Description |
|---|---|---|

> | Outlook | [Try out Outlook add-in API requirement set 1.16](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/outlook/outlook-requirement-set-1-16) | Try the new Mailbox requirement set 1.16 features, including how to create an encryption add-in that handles the `OnMessageDecrypt` event. See the [announcement blog post](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/mailbox-requirement-set-1-16-now-available-for-outlook-add-ins/) for more details. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Developer experience | [Learn how to use the office-addin-cache tool](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/testing/clear-cache#use-the-office-addin-cache-tool) | Learn how to use the office-addin-cache tool to programmatically clear your cache. |
| Excel | [Try out Excel JavaScript API 1.21](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/excel/excel-api-1-21-requirement-set) | Try out the new APIs introduced in Excel JavaScript API 1.21, including how to programmatically load linked entity cell values. |
| Excel | [Create custom functions in Excel](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/excel/custom-functions-overview?tabs=jsonmanifest) | Preview how to use the unified manifest with custom function add-ins. |
| Outlook | [Try out Outlook add-in API requirement set 1.16](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/outlook/outlook-requirement-set-1-16) | Try the new Mailbox requirement set 1.16 features, including how to create an encryption add-in that handles the `OnMessageDecrypt` event. See the [announcement blog post](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/mailbox-requirement-set-1-16-now-available-for-outlook-add-ins/) for more details. |
```

Adds additional docs from the deck.

| Outlook | [Updated blog post: Prepare your add-in for Outlook ribbon improvements](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/prepare-your-addin-for-outlook-ribbon-improvements/) | Review updated naming changes for add-in buttons on the ribbon in Outlook on the web and the new Outlook on Windows. |
| Outlook | [Sample: Invoke an Outlook add-in from an actionable message](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/outlook-actionable-message) | Run the sample to learn how to activate an Outlook add-in from an actionable message. |
| PowerPoint | [Create custom keyboard shortcuts](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/keyboard-shortcuts) | Implement custom keyboard shortcuts for your PowerPoint add-ins. |
| PowerPoint | [Sample: Use keyboard shortcuts for Office Add-in actions](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/office-keyboard-shortcuts) | Run the sample to test custom keyboard shortcuts for Office Add-ins. |

## Call to action

> - Join the [next community call](https://aka.ms/officeaddinscommunitycall) on August 12, 2026 at 7:00 AM Pacific Time/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Join the [next community call](https://aka.ms/officeaddinscommunitycall) on August 12, 2026 at 7:00 AM Pacific Time.
```
